docs/md/manual/06_Manage_Pipeline/6.2._Launch_a_pipeline.md, before:

# 6.2. Launch a pipeline

> To launch a pipeline you need to have **EXECUTE** permissions for the pipeline. For more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).
>
> Also you can launch a pipeline via CLI. See [14.5 Manage pipeline executions via CLI](../14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md#schedule-a-pipeline-execution).

1. Select a pipeline in the "**Library**" menu ([3. Overview](../03_Overview/3._Overview.md#library)).
2. Select a pipeline version to run.
3. Click the **Run** button. Launch pipeline page will open.  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_1.png)  
    Feel free to change settings of run configuration if you need to. See an example of editing configuration [here](6.1._Create_and_configure_pipeline.md#edit-pipeline-configuration-optional).  
    **_Note_**: if **Price type** is set as "_On-demand_" - at the **Launch page**, an additional checkbox **Auto pause** appears:  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_4.png)  
    This checkbox allows to enable automatic pausing on-demand instance if it is not used. Such behavior could be controlled by Administrators using a set of parameters at System Preferences (see [here](../12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md#system)).

    > Please note, this checkbox will not be displayed if any cluster is configured ("Static" or "Autoscaled").

4. Click **Launch**.  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_2.png)  
    Please note, that the current user can launch a pipeline only if he/his group has corresponding permissions on that pipeline (for more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md)), but the **Launch** button may be disabled also for one of the following reasons:

    - `execution` isn't allowed for specified docker image;
    - `read` operations aren't allowed for specified **input** or **common** path parameters;
    - `write` operations aren't allowed for specified **output** path parameters.

    In such cases, hover over the **Launch** button to view warning notification with a reason of a run forbiddance, e.g.:  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](../../release_notes/v.0.15/attachments/RN015_PermissionsVerification_2.png)

5. Confirm launch in an appeared popup.
6. You'll be redirected to the **"Runs"** area. Here you'll find your pipeline running. You can monitor status of your run and see additional information (see [11. Manage Runs](../11_Manage_Runs/11._Manage_Runs.md)).  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_3.png)  
    **_Note_**: after some initialization time, a new node will appear in the "**Cluster nodes**" tab. See [9. Manage Cluster nodes](../09_Manage_Cluster_nodes/9._Manage_Cluster_nodes.md).

**_Note_**: to learn about launching a pipeline as an Interactive service, refer to [15. Interactive services](../15_Interactive_services/15._Interactive_services.md).

Commit message:

Update Cloud-Pipeline Docs with description of new features  (#926)
* Description of Slurm using was added into RN and docs

* 'Ability to generate pipe run command via the GUI' was added into docs, previous documentation was updated

* Description of 'pipe view-tools' command was added into RN016 and docs

* Description of the 'hybrid' autoscaler was added into RN016

* Description of CRON feature for the detached configuration was added into RN015 and docs

docs/md/manual/06_Manage_Pipeline/6.2._Launch_a_pipeline.md, after:

# 6.2. Launch a pipeline

> To launch a pipeline you need to have **EXECUTE** permissions for the pipeline. For more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).
>
> Also you can launch a pipeline via CLI. See [14.5 Manage pipeline executions via CLI](../14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md#schedule-a-pipeline-execution).

1. Select a pipeline in the "**Library**" menu ([3. Overview](../03_Overview/3._Overview.md#library)).
2. Select a pipeline version to run.
3. Click the **Run** button. Launch pipeline page will open.  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_1.png)  
    Feel free to change settings of run configuration if you need to. See an example of editing configuration [here](6.1._Create_and_configure_pipeline.md#edit-pipeline-configuration-optional).  
    **_Note_**: if **Price type** is set as "_On-demand_" - at the **Launch page**, an additional checkbox **Auto pause** appears:  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_4.png)  
    This checkbox allows to enable automatic pausing on-demand instance if it is not used. Such behavior could be controlled by Administrators using a set of parameters at System Preferences (see [here](../12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md#system)).

    > Please note, this checkbox will not be displayed if any cluster is configured ("Static" or "Autoscaled").

4. Click **Launch**.  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_2.png)  
    Please note, that the current user can launch a pipeline only if he/his group has corresponding permissions on that pipeline (for more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md)), but the **Launch** button may be disabled also for one of the following reasons:

    - `execution` isn't allowed for specified docker image;
    - `read` operations aren't allowed for specified **input** or **common** path parameters;
    - `write` operations aren't allowed for specified **output** path parameters.

    In such cases, hover over the **Launch** button to view warning notification with a reason of a run forbiddance, e.g.:  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](../../release_notes/v.0.15/attachments/RN015_PermissionsVerification_2.png)

    > **_Note_**: you can also launch a pipeline with the same settings via the `CLI` command or `API` request.  
    > To generate the corresponding command/request click the button ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_6.png) near the "Launch" button. For more details see [here](../14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md#generate-pipeline-launch-command-via-the-gui).

5. Confirm launch in the appeared popup.  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_5.png)
6. You'll be redirected to the **"Runs"** area. Here you'll find your pipeline running. You can monitor status of your run and see additional information (see [11. Manage Runs](../11_Manage_Runs/11._Manage_Runs.md)).  
    ![CP_LaunchPipeline](attachments/LaunchPipeline_3.png)  
    **_Note_**: after some initialization time, a new node will appear in the "**Cluster nodes**" tab. See [9. Manage Cluster nodes](../09_Manage_Cluster_nodes/9._Manage_Cluster_nodes.md).

**_Note_**: to learn about launching a pipeline as an Interactive service, refer to [15. Interactive services](../15_Interactive_services/15._Interactive_services.md).
