# Check the warning in case of OOM risk due to the storage mounts number

**Prerequisites**:

- admin user
- non-admin user

**Preparations**:

1. Log in as the non-admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Tools** page
3. Select any tool (e.g. _ubuntu_)
4. At the tool page, hover over the "**Run v**" button
5. Click the "**Custom settings**" button in the list
6. Expand the "**Exec environment**" section
7. Click the "**Node type**" dropdown list
8. Find the node type with the smallest integer RAM volume (but bigger than `0`), save that volume count
9. Open the **Library** page
10. Click the "**All storages**" button
11. Count the number of the only _object_ storages at the displayed page
12. If the count from step 11 less than the count from step 8:
    - Log out
    - Log in as the admin from the prerequisites
    - Create the storage and give access to it for the non-admin user from the prerequisites
    - Repeat the previous step till the sum of the created storages count and of the number from step 11 will become equal to the number from step 8
    - Log out

**Actions**:

1. Login as the admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the "**System settings**" page
3. Click the **PREFERENCES** tab
4. Find the preference `storage.mounts.per.gb.ratio`
5. Set the value `1` to the preference from step 4
6. Click the **Save** button
7. Log out
8. Repeat steps 1-5 of the preparations
9. Expand the **Advanced** section
10. Click the **Launch** button
11. Click the **Cancel** button
12. Log out
13. Repeat steps 1-4
14. Set the value `100` to the preference from step 4
15. Repeat steps 6-7
16. Repeat steps 1-5 of the preparations
17. Expand the **Advanced** section
18. Click the **Launch** button

**After**:  
Remove object storages created at step 12 of preparations

***

**Expected result**:

After step 9, the panel with text `A large number of the object data storages (...) are going to be mounted for this job...` appears under the "**Limit mounts**" field

After step 10, the pop-up contains the section with the text `A large number of the object data storages (...) are going to be mounted for this job...`

After steps 17, 18 there is no panel with text `A large number of the object data storages (...) are going to be mounted for this job...`
