# Allow to launch runs without mounts

**Prerequisites**:

- admin user

**Preparations**:

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Tools** page
3. Select any tool (e.g. _ubuntu_)
4. Click the **SETTINGS** tab
5. Expand the "**EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT**" section
6. If the checkbox "**Do not mount storages**" is set:
    - unset the checkbox
    - click the **SAVE** button

**Actions**:

1. Open the **Library** page
2. Create the object storage
3. Open the **Tools** page
4. Select the tool from step 3 of the preparations
5. At the tool page, hover over the "**Run v**" button
6. Click the "**Custom settings**" button in the list
7. Expand the **Advanced** section
8. Set the checkbox "**Do not mount storages**"
9. Unset the checkbox "**Do not mount storages**"
10. Click the text field near the label "**Limit mounts**"
11. Click the button "**Clear selection**"
12. Click the **OK** button
13. Launch the run
14. At the **Runs** page, click the just-launched run
15. Expand the **Parameters** section
16. Wait until the **SSH** hyperlink appears
17. Click the **MountDataStorages** task
18. Click the **SSH** hyperlink
19. In the opened tab, enter and perform the command: `ls -l cloud-data/`

**After**:  
Stop the run launched at step 13 and remove the object storage created at step 3

***

**Expected result**:

After step 7, the field near the label "**Limit mounts**" contains the text `All available non-sensitive storages`

After step 8, the text field near the label "**Limit mounts**" isn't displaying

After step 9:

- the text field near the label "**Limit mounts**" is displaying
- that field contains the text `All available non-sensitive storages`

After step 11, buttons "**Select all**", "**Select all non-sensitive**", **OK** are enabled

After step 12:

- the text field near the label "**Limit mounts**" isn't displaying
- the checkbox "**Do not mount storages**" is set

After step 15, the **Parameters** section contains the text `CP_CAP_LIMIT_MOUNTS: None`

After step 17, the run log contains:

- `Run is launched with mount limits (None) Only 0 storages will be mounted`
- `No remote storages are available or CP_CAP_LIMIT_MOUNTS configured to none`

After step 19, the command output is `total 0`
