# [Manual] Check run "hosted" applications (several ports)
**Prerequisites:**

non-admin user

**Actions:**

1. Login as the non-admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the Tools page
3. Select _ubuntu_ tool
4. At the tool page, hover over the "**Run v**" button
5. Click the "**Custom settings**" button in the list
6. Expand the "**Advanced**" section
7. Click the "**Configure**" link near the "**Internal DNS name**" label
8. In the "**Configure internal DNS**" pop-up window input `my-service` value into the "**Service name**" field
9. Input valid value into the "**Port**" field (_port1_)
10. Click "**Add ports configuration**"
11. Input valid value into the second "**Port**" field (_port2_)
12. Repeat steps 10-11 2 times
13. Click the "**Save**" button
14. Launch the run
15. At the Runs page, click the just-launched run
16. Hover over the "_And 1 more_" link
17. Wait until the SSH hyperlink appears
21. Click the SSH hyperlink
22. In the opened tab (_terminal1_), enter and perform the command: `netcat -lp <port>`, where _port_ is _port1_ value.  (Note: if _netcat_ isn't installed enter and perform the command `sudo apt install netcat` before that)
23. Repeat steps 21-22 with value _port2_ (_terminal2_)
24. Open the Tools page
25. Select any tool (e.g. ubuntu)
26. At the tool page, hover over the "**Run v**" button
27. Click the "**Custom settings**" button in the list
28. Set launch options. Launch the run
29. At the Runs page, click the just-launched run
30. Wait until the SSH hyperlink appears
31. Click the SSH hyperlink
32. In the opened tab (_terminal3_), enter and perform the command:
`netcat my-service.default.svc.cluster.local <port>`, where _port_ is _port1_ value. Input any text in empty row and click Enter
33. Repeat steps 31-32 with _port2_ value (_terminal4_)
34. Go to _terminal1_ and _terminal2_

**After**:
Stop the run launched at steps 14 and 28

***
**Expected result:**
After steps 15,
- 3 addresses `my-service.default.svc.cluster.local:<port>` are shown near the "**Service:**" label with ports _port1_-_port3_
- "_And 1 more_" link is shown under the addresses

After steps 16, tooltip with 4 addresses appears

After steps 34,
- the "log" _terminal1_ window shall contain text inputted on the _terminal3_
- the "log" _terminal2_ window shall contain text inputted on the _terminal4_