# Check the Configure internal DNS pop-up
**Prerequisites:**

non-admin user

**Actions:**

1. Login as the non-admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the Tools page
3. Select any tool (e.g. _ubuntu_)
4. At the tool page, hover over the "**Run v**" button
5. Click the "**Custom settings**" button in the list
6. Expand the "**Advanced**" section
7. Click the "**Configure**" link near the "**Internal DNS name**" label
8. In the "**Configure internal DNS**" pop-up window input valid value into the "**Service name**" field
9. Input valid value into the "**Port**" field
10. Change value in the "**Port**" field
11. Change value in the "**Target Port**" field
12. Repeat step 10
13. Click "**Add ports configuration**"
14. Input value from step 12 into the second "**Port**" field
15. Change value in the second "**Port**" field
16. Click the "**Save**" button
17. Click the "**Configure**" link near the "**Internal DNS name**" label
18. Click delete icon for the first Port
19. Click the "**Save**" button
20. Click the "**Configure**" link near the "**Internal DNS name**" label
21. Click delete icon for the first Port
22. Click  "**Remove configuration**" button

***
**Expected result:**

After step 7, the "**Save**" button is disable on the "**Configure internal DNS**" pop-up window

After step 8, error message "_Port is invalid. Target port is invalid_" appears under the "**Port**" field. The "**Save**" button is disable

After step 9, 10 the value in the "**Target Port**" field is the same as in the "**Port**" field

After steps 12, "**Port**" and "**Target Port**" fields have different values inputed in 11, 12 steps accordingly

After steps 14, error message "_Port <...> is already configured_" appears under the "**Port**" field

After steps 16, text "<_service_name_> (<_port1_>:<_target_port1_>, <_port2_>:<_target_port2_>)" is shown near the "**Internal DNS name**" label

After steps 17, all fields have correct values inputed in previous steps

After steps 19, text "<_service_name_> (<_port2_>:<_target_port2_>)" is shown near the "**Internal DNS name**" label

After steps 22, text "<_service_name_> (<_port2_>:<_target_port2_>)" isn't shown near the "**Internal DNS name**" label