docs/md/manual/Cloud_Pipeline_-_Manual.md, before:

# Cloud Pipeline - Manual

- [1. Quick start](01_Quick_start/1._Quick_start.md)
- [2. Getting started](02_Getting_started/2._Getting_started.md)
- [3. Overview](03_Overview/3._Overview.md)
- [4. Manage Folder](04_Manage_Folder/4._Manage_Folder.md)
    - [4.1. Create an object in Folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.1._Create_an_object_in_Folder.md)
    - [4.2. Rename folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.2._Rename_folder.md)
    - [4.3. Delete Folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.3._Delete_Folder.md)
    - [4.4. Clone a folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.4._Clone_a_folder.md)
    - [4.5. Lock a folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.5._Lock_a_folder.md)
- [5. Manage Metadata](05_Manage_Metadata/5._Manage_Metadata.md)
    - [5.1. Add/Delete metadata items](05_Manage_Metadata/5.1._Add_Delete_metadata_items.md)
    - [5.2. Upload metadata](05_Manage_Metadata/5.2._Upload_metadata.md)
    - [5.3. Customize view of the entity instance table](05_Manage_Metadata/5.3._Customize_view_of_the_entity_instance_table.md)
    - [5.4. Launch a run configuration on metadata](05_Manage_Metadata/5.4._Launch_a_run_configuration_on_metadata.md)
    - [5.5. Download data from external resources to the cloud data storage](05_Manage_Metadata/5.5._Download_data_from_external_resources_to_the_cloud_data_storage.md)
- [6. Manage Pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6._Manage_Pipeline.md)
    - [6.1. Create and configure pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6.1._Create_and_configure_pipeline.md)
    - [6.1.1. Building WDL pipeline with graphical PipelineBuilder](06_Manage_Pipeline/6.1.1._Building_WDL_pipeline_with_graphical_PipelineBuilder.md)
    - [6.2. Launch a pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6.2._Launch_a_pipeline.md)
    - [6.3. Delete and unregister pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6.3._Delete_a_pipeline.md)
- [7. Manage Detached configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7._Manage_Detached_configuration.md)
    - [7.1. Create and customize Detached configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7.1._Create_and_customize_Detached_configuration.md)
    - [7.2. Launch Detached Configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7.2._Launch_Detached_Configuration.md)
    - [7.3. Expansion Expressions](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7.3._Expansion_Expressions.md)
    - [7.4. Remove Detached configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7.4._Remove_Detached_configuration.md)
- [8. Manage Data Storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8._Manage_Data_Storage.md)
    - [8.1. Create and edit storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.1._Create_and_edit_storage.md)
    - [8.2. Upload/Download data](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.2._Upload_Download_data.md)
    - [8.3. Create and Edit text files](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.3._Create_and_Edit_text_files.md)
    - [8.4. Control File versions](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.4._Control_File_versions.md)
    - [8.5. Delete and unregister Data Storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.5._Delete_and_unregister_Data_Storage.md)
    - [8.6. Delete Files and Folders from Storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.6._Delete_Files_and_Folders_from_Storage.md)
    - [8.7. Create shared file system](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.7._Create_shared_file_system.md)
    - [8.8. Data sharing](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.8._Data_sharing.md)
- [9. Manage Cluster nodes](09_Manage_Cluster_nodes/9._Manage_Cluster_nodes.md)
- [10. Manage Tools](10_Manage_Tools/10._Manage_Tools.md)
    - [10.1. Add/Edit a Docker registry](10_Manage_Tools/10.1._Add_Edit_a_Docker_registry.md)
    - [10.2. Add/Edit a Tool group](10_Manage_Tools/10.2._Add_Edit_a_Tool_group.md)
    - [10.3. Add a Tool](10_Manage_Tools/10.3._Add_a_Tool.md)
    - [10.4. Edit a Tool](10_Manage_Tools/10.4._Edit_a_Tool.md)
    - [10.5. Launch a Tool](10_Manage_Tools/10.5._Launch_a_Tool.md)
    - [10.6. Tool security check](10_Manage_Tools/10.6._Tool_security_check.md)
    - [10.7. Tool version menu](10_Manage_Tools/10.7._Tool_version_menu.md)
- [11. Manage Runs](11_Manage_Runs/11._Manage_Runs.md)
    - [11.1. Manage runs lifecycles](11_Manage_Runs/11.1._Manage_runs_lifecycles.md)
    - [11.2. Auto-commit Docker image](11_Manage_Runs/11.2._Auto-commit_Docker_image.md)
    - [11.3. Sharing with other users or groups of users](11_Manage_Runs/11.3._Sharing_with_other_users_or_groups_of_users.md)
- [12. Manage Settings](12_Manage_Settings/12._Manage_Settings.md)
    - [12.1. Add a new system event](12_Manage_Settings/12.1._Add_a_new_system_event.md)
    - [12.2. Edit a system event](12_Manage_Settings/12.2._Edit_a_system_event.md)
    - [12.3. Create a new user](12_Manage_Settings/12.3._Create_a_new_user.md)
    - [12.4. Edit/delete a user](12_Manage_Settings/12.4._Edit_delete_a_user.md)
    - [12.5. Create a group](12_Manage_Settings/12.5._Create_a_group.md)
    - [12.6. Edit a group/role](12_Manage_Settings/12.6._Edit_a_group_role.md)
    - [12.7. Delete a group](12_Manage_Settings/12.7._Delete_a_group.md)
    - [12.8. Change a set of roles/groups for a user](12_Manage_Settings/12.8._Change_a_set_of_roles_groups_for_a_user.md)
    - [12.9. Change email notification](12_Manage_Settings/12.9._Change_email_notification.md)
    - [12.10. Manage system-level settings](12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md)
    - [12.11. Advanced features](12_Manage_Settings/12.11._Advanced_features.md)
- [13. Permissions](13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md)
- [14. Command-line interface (CLI)](14_CLI/14._Command-line_interface.md)
    - [14.1. Install and setup CLI](14_CLI/14.1._Install_and_setup_CLI.md)
    - [14.2. View and manage Attributes via CLI](14_CLI/14.2._View_and_manage_Attributes_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.3. Manage Storage via CLI](14_CLI/14.3._Manage_Storage_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.4. View pipeline definitions via CLI](14_CLI/14.4._View_pipeline_definitions_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.5. Manage pipeline executions via CLI](14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.6. View cluster nodes via CLI](14_CLI/14.6._View_cluster_nodes_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.7. View and manage Permissions via CLI](14_CLI/14.7._View_and_manage_Permissions_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.8. View tools definitions via CLI](14_CLI/14.8._View_tools_definitions_via_CLI.md)
- [15. Interactive services](15_Interactive_services/15._Interactive_services.md)
    - [15.1. Starting an Interactive application](15_Interactive_services/15.1._Starting_an_Interactive_application.md)
    - [15.2. Using Terminal access](15_Interactive_services/15.2._Using_Terminal_access.md)
    - [15.3. Expose node filesystem](15_Interactive_services/15.3._Expose_node_filesystem.md)
    - [15.4. Interactive service examples](15_Interactive_services/15.4._Interactive_service_examples.md)
- [16. Issues](16_Issues/16._Issues.md)
- [17. CP objects tagging by additional attributes](17_Tagging_by_attributes/17._CP_objects_tagging_by_additional_attributes.md)
- [18. Home page](18_Home_page/18._Home_page.md)
- [Appendix A. Instance and Docker container lifecycles](Appendix_A/Appendix_A._Instance_and_Docker_container_lifecycles.md)
- [Appendix B. Working with a Project](Appendix_B/Appendix_B._Working_with_a_Project.md)
- [Appendix C. Working with autoscaled cluster runs](Appendix_C/Appendix_C._Working_with_autoscaled_cluster_runs.md)
- [Appendix D. Costs management](Appendix_D/Appendix_D._Costs_management.md)
- [Appendix E. Pipeline objects concept](Appendix_E/Appendix_E._Pipeline_objects_concept.md)

[1. Quick start](01_Quick_start/1._Quick_start.md)  
This chapter will give you a basic knowledge of pipeline running procedure.

[2. Getting started](02_Getting_started/2._Getting_started.md)  
Find Thesaurus, list of supported browsers and authentication details.

[3. Overview](03_Overview/3._Overview.md)  
Get familiar with a Cloud Pipeline Graphical User Interface (GUI).

[4. Manage Folder](04_Manage_Folder/4._Manage_Folder.md)  
Learn how you can create your own hierarchical structured space.

[5. Manage Metadata](05_Manage_Metadata/5._Manage_Metadata.md)  
Learn how you can create a complex analysis environment using custom data entities.

[6. Manage Pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6._Manage_Pipeline.md)  
Get details on pipeline creation, configuration, and launching. Get descriptions of "Launch pipeline" page. There is also a description of graphical "Pipeline builder" for WDL pipelines.

[7. Manage Detached configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7._Manage_Detached_configuration.md)  
Learn how to run a cluster of differently configurated instances. "Launch cluster" box vs LaunchofClusterconfiguration.

[8. Manage Data Storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8._Manage_Data_Storage.md)  
Create a new storage and learn how to manage it: download and upload, copy, move data, delete and unregister storages.

[9. Manage Cluster Nodes](09_Manage_Cluster_nodes/9._Manage_Cluster_nodes.md)  
Learn about active nodes, how to terminate and refresh them. Get familiar with a related dashboard.

[10. Manage Tools](10_Manage_Tools/10._Manage_Tools.md)  
Add and edit Docker registry. Learn how to add, modify and launch Tools.

[11. Manage Runs](11_Manage_Runs/11._Manage_Runs.md)  
Learn about Runs space and what information you can get from it.

[12. Manage Settings](12_Manage_Settings/12._Manage_Settings.md)  
Here you can find information about: how to install CLI, add a new system event, managing roles.

[13. Permissions](13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md)  
Learn how to manage permissions for Cloud Pipeline objects.

[14. Command-line interface (CLI)](14_CLI/14._Command-line_interface.md)  
Get familiar with a Cloud Pipeline Command Line Interface (CLI).

[15. Interactive services](15_Interactive_services/15._Interactive_services.md)  
Learn how to setup non-batch application in a cloud infrastructure and access it via a web interface.

[16. Issues](16_Issues/16._Issues.md)  
Learn how to share results with other users or get feedback.

[17. CP objects tagging by additional attributes](17_Tagging_by_attributes/17._CP_objects_tagging_by_additional_attributes.md)  
Learn how to manage custom sets of "key-values" attributes for data storage and files.

[18. Home page](18_Home_page/18._Home_page.md)  
Get details about homepage widgets, how to configure homepage view.

[Appendix A. Instance and Docker container lifecycles](Appendix_A/Appendix_A._Instance_and_Docker_container_lifecycles.md)  
Learn basics about instance and Docker container lifecycle.

[Appendix B. Working with a Project](Appendix_B/Appendix_B._Working_with_a_Project.md)  
Learn basics about working with a Project.

[Appendix C. Working with autoscaled cluster runs](Appendix_C/Appendix_C._Working_with_autoscaled_cluster_runs.md)  
Learn basics about working with autoscaled cluster runs.

[Appendix D. Costs management](Appendix_D/Appendix_D._Costs_management.md)  
Get details about costs management concept.

[Appendix E. Pipeline objects concept](Appendix_E/Appendix_E._Pipeline_objects_concept.md)  
Get details about the Pipeline objects concept in Cloud Pipeline environment.

Commit message:

Update Docs and Release Notes 0.15 & 0.16 (#1184)
* Description of 'view user/group objects' commands was added into RN016 and docs

* Description of the feature 'Revert changes for user/group/role' was added into docs

* Description of possible automatic actions and labels for the launched run was added into docs

* Description of 'Sharing with anonymous users' was added into RN015 and docs

* Description of 'Forced Cloud Provider/Region for a tool' was added into docs and RN016

* Description of 'Cross-mount restrictions' was added into RN016

* Description of 'Perform pipe commands on behalf of the other user' was added into docs and RN015

* Description of 'Symlinked tools' was added into docs and RN016

* Minor changes in auto-scaled cluster description

docs/md/manual/Cloud_Pipeline_-_Manual.md, after:

# Cloud Pipeline - Manual

- [1. Quick start](01_Quick_start/1._Quick_start.md)
- [2. Getting started](02_Getting_started/2._Getting_started.md)
- [3. Overview](03_Overview/3._Overview.md)
- [4. Manage Folder](04_Manage_Folder/4._Manage_Folder.md)
    - [4.1. Create an object in Folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.1._Create_an_object_in_Folder.md)
    - [4.2. Rename folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.2._Rename_folder.md)
    - [4.3. Delete Folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.3._Delete_Folder.md)
    - [4.4. Clone a folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.4._Clone_a_folder.md)
    - [4.5. Lock a folder](04_Manage_Folder/4.5._Lock_a_folder.md)
- [5. Manage Metadata](05_Manage_Metadata/5._Manage_Metadata.md)
    - [5.1. Add/Delete metadata items](05_Manage_Metadata/5.1._Add_Delete_metadata_items.md)
    - [5.2. Upload metadata](05_Manage_Metadata/5.2._Upload_metadata.md)
    - [5.3. Customize view of the entity instance table](05_Manage_Metadata/5.3._Customize_view_of_the_entity_instance_table.md)
    - [5.4. Launch a run configuration on metadata](05_Manage_Metadata/5.4._Launch_a_run_configuration_on_metadata.md)
    - [5.5. Download data from external resources to the cloud data storage](05_Manage_Metadata/5.5._Download_data_from_external_resources_to_the_cloud_data_storage.md)
- [6. Manage Pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6._Manage_Pipeline.md)
    - [6.1. Create and configure pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6.1._Create_and_configure_pipeline.md)
    - [6.1.1. Building WDL pipeline with graphical PipelineBuilder](06_Manage_Pipeline/6.1.1._Building_WDL_pipeline_with_graphical_PipelineBuilder.md)
    - [6.2. Launch a pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6.2._Launch_a_pipeline.md)
    - [6.3. Delete and unregister pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6.3._Delete_a_pipeline.md)
- [7. Manage Detached configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7._Manage_Detached_configuration.md)
    - [7.1. Create and customize Detached configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7.1._Create_and_customize_Detached_configuration.md)
    - [7.2. Launch Detached Configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7.2._Launch_Detached_Configuration.md)
    - [7.3. Expansion Expressions](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7.3._Expansion_Expressions.md)
    - [7.4. Remove Detached configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7.4._Remove_Detached_configuration.md)
- [8. Manage Data Storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8._Manage_Data_Storage.md)
    - [8.1. Create and edit storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.1._Create_and_edit_storage.md)
    - [8.2. Upload/Download data](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.2._Upload_Download_data.md)
    - [8.3. Create and Edit text files](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.3._Create_and_Edit_text_files.md)
    - [8.4. Control File versions](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.4._Control_File_versions.md)
    - [8.5. Delete and unregister Data Storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.5._Delete_and_unregister_Data_Storage.md)
    - [8.6. Delete Files and Folders from Storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.6._Delete_Files_and_Folders_from_Storage.md)
    - [8.7. Create shared file system](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.7._Create_shared_file_system.md)
    - [8.8. Data sharing](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8.8._Data_sharing.md)
- [9. Manage Cluster nodes](09_Manage_Cluster_nodes/9._Manage_Cluster_nodes.md)
- [10. Manage Tools](10_Manage_Tools/10._Manage_Tools.md)
    - [10.1. Add/Edit a Docker registry](10_Manage_Tools/10.1._Add_Edit_a_Docker_registry.md)
    - [10.2. Add/Edit a Tool group](10_Manage_Tools/10.2._Add_Edit_a_Tool_group.md)
    - [10.3. Add a Tool](10_Manage_Tools/10.3._Add_a_Tool.md)
    - [10.4. Edit a Tool](10_Manage_Tools/10.4._Edit_a_Tool.md)
    - [10.5. Launch a Tool](10_Manage_Tools/10.5._Launch_a_Tool.md)
    - [10.6. Tool security check](10_Manage_Tools/10.6._Tool_security_check.md)
    - [10.7. Tool version menu](10_Manage_Tools/10.7._Tool_version_menu.md)
    - [10.8. "Symlinked" tools](10_Manage_Tools/10.8._Symlinks_between_tools.md)
- [11. Manage Runs](11_Manage_Runs/11._Manage_Runs.md)
    - [11.1. Manage runs lifecycles](11_Manage_Runs/11.1._Manage_runs_lifecycles.md)
    - [11.2. Auto-commit Docker image](11_Manage_Runs/11.2._Auto-commit_Docker_image.md)
    - [11.3. Sharing with other users or groups of users](11_Manage_Runs/11.3._Sharing_with_other_users_or_groups_of_users.md)
    - [11.4. Automatic labels and actions for the runs](11_Manage_Runs/11.4._Automatic_actions_after_notifications.md)
- [12. Manage Settings](12_Manage_Settings/12._Manage_Settings.md)
    - [12.1. Add a new system event](12_Manage_Settings/12.1._Add_a_new_system_event.md)
    - [12.2. Edit a system event](12_Manage_Settings/12.2._Edit_a_system_event.md)
    - [12.3. Create a new user](12_Manage_Settings/12.3._Create_a_new_user.md)
    - [12.4. Edit/delete a user](12_Manage_Settings/12.4._Edit_delete_a_user.md)
    - [12.5. Create a group](12_Manage_Settings/12.5._Create_a_group.md)
    - [12.6. Edit a group/role](12_Manage_Settings/12.6._Edit_a_group_role.md)
    - [12.7. Delete a group](12_Manage_Settings/12.7._Delete_a_group.md)
    - [12.8. Change a set of roles/groups for a user](12_Manage_Settings/12.8._Change_a_set_of_roles_groups_for_a_user.md)
    - [12.9. Change email notification](12_Manage_Settings/12.9._Change_email_notification.md)
    - [12.10. Manage system-level settings](12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md)
    - [12.11. Advanced features](12_Manage_Settings/12.11._Advanced_features.md)
    - [12.12. System logs](12_Manage_Settings/12.12._System_logs.md)
- [13. Permissions](13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md)
- [14. Command-line interface (CLI)](14_CLI/14._Command-line_interface.md)
    - [14.1. Install and setup CLI](14_CLI/14.1._Install_and_setup_CLI.md)
    - [14.2. View and manage Attributes via CLI](14_CLI/14.2._View_and_manage_Attributes_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.3. Manage Storage via CLI](14_CLI/14.3._Manage_Storage_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.4. View pipeline definitions via CLI](14_CLI/14.4._View_pipeline_definitions_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.5. Manage pipeline executions via CLI](14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.6. View cluster nodes via CLI](14_CLI/14.6._View_cluster_nodes_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.7. View and manage Permissions via CLI](14_CLI/14.7._View_and_manage_Permissions_via_CLI.md)
    - [14.8. View tools definitions via CLI](14_CLI/14.8._View_tools_definitions_via_CLI.md)
- [15. Interactive services](15_Interactive_services/15._Interactive_services.md)
    - [15.1. Starting an Interactive application](15_Interactive_services/15.1._Starting_an_Interactive_application.md)
    - [15.2. Using Terminal access](15_Interactive_services/15.2._Using_Terminal_access.md)
    - [15.3. Expose node filesystem](15_Interactive_services/15.3._Expose_node_filesystem.md)
    - [15.4. Interactive service examples](15_Interactive_services/15.4._Interactive_service_examples.md)
- [16. Issues](16_Issues/16._Issues.md)
- [17. CP objects tagging by additional attributes](17_Tagging_by_attributes/17._CP_objects_tagging_by_additional_attributes.md)
- [18. Home page](18_Home_page/18._Home_page.md)
- [Appendix A. Instance and Docker container lifecycles](Appendix_A/Appendix_A._Instance_and_Docker_container_lifecycles.md)
- [Appendix B. Working with a Project](Appendix_B/Appendix_B._Working_with_a_Project.md)
- [Appendix C. Working with autoscaled cluster runs](Appendix_C/Appendix_C._Working_with_autoscaled_cluster_runs.md)
- [Appendix D. Costs management](Appendix_D/Appendix_D._Costs_management.md)
- [Appendix E. Pipeline objects concept](Appendix_E/Appendix_E._Pipeline_objects_concept.md)

[1. Quick start](01_Quick_start/1._Quick_start.md)  
This chapter will give you a basic knowledge of pipeline running procedure.

[2. Getting started](02_Getting_started/2._Getting_started.md)  
Find Thesaurus, list of supported browsers and authentication details.

[3. Overview](03_Overview/3._Overview.md)  
Get familiar with a Cloud Pipeline Graphical User Interface (GUI).

[4. Manage Folder](04_Manage_Folder/4._Manage_Folder.md)  
Learn how you can create your own hierarchical structured space.

[5. Manage Metadata](05_Manage_Metadata/5._Manage_Metadata.md)  
Learn how you can create a complex analysis environment using custom data entities.

[6. Manage Pipeline](06_Manage_Pipeline/6._Manage_Pipeline.md)  
Get details on pipeline creation, configuration, and launching. Get descriptions of "Launch pipeline" page. There is also a description of graphical "Pipeline builder" for WDL pipelines.

[7. Manage Detached configuration](07_Manage_Detached_configuration/7._Manage_Detached_configuration.md)  
Learn how to run a cluster of differently configurated instances. "Launch cluster" box vs LaunchofClusterconfiguration.

[8. Manage Data Storage](08_Manage_Data_Storage/8._Manage_Data_Storage.md)  
Create a new storage and learn how to manage it: download and upload, copy, move data, delete and unregister storages.

[9. Manage Cluster Nodes](09_Manage_Cluster_nodes/9._Manage_Cluster_nodes.md)  
Learn about active nodes, how to terminate and refresh them. Get familiar with a related dashboard.

[10. Manage Tools](10_Manage_Tools/10._Manage_Tools.md)  
Add and edit Docker registry. Learn how to add, modify and launch Tools.

[11. Manage Runs](11_Manage_Runs/11._Manage_Runs.md)  
Learn about Runs space and what information you can get from it.

[12. Manage Settings](12_Manage_Settings/12._Manage_Settings.md)  
Here you can find information about: how to install CLI, add a new system event, managing roles.

[13. Permissions](13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md)  
Learn how to manage permissions for Cloud Pipeline objects.

[14. Command-line interface (CLI)](14_CLI/14._Command-line_interface.md)  
Get familiar with a Cloud Pipeline Command Line Interface (CLI).

[15. Interactive services](15_Interactive_services/15._Interactive_services.md)  
Learn how to setup non-batch application in a cloud infrastructure and access it via a web interface.

[16. Issues](16_Issues/16._Issues.md)  
Learn how to share results with other users or get feedback.

[17. CP objects tagging by additional attributes](17_Tagging_by_attributes/17._CP_objects_tagging_by_additional_attributes.md)  
Learn how to manage custom sets of "key-values" attributes for data storage and files.

[18. Home page](18_Home_page/18._Home_page.md)  
Get details about homepage widgets, how to configure homepage view.

[Appendix A. Instance and Docker container lifecycles](Appendix_A/Appendix_A._Instance_and_Docker_container_lifecycles.md)  
Learn basics about instance and Docker container lifecycle.

[Appendix B. Working with a Project](Appendix_B/Appendix_B._Working_with_a_Project.md)  
Learn basics about working with a Project.

[Appendix C. Working with autoscaled cluster runs](Appendix_C/Appendix_C._Working_with_autoscaled_cluster_runs.md)  
Learn basics about working with autoscaled cluster runs.

[Appendix D. Costs management](Appendix_D/Appendix_D._Costs_management.md)  
Get details about costs management concept.

[Appendix E. Pipeline objects concept](Appendix_E/Appendix_E._Pipeline_objects_concept.md)  
Get details about the Pipeline objects concept in Cloud Pipeline environment.
