docs/md/manual/14_CLI/14._Command-line_interface.md, before:

# 14. Command-line interface (CLI)

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Working with CLI](#working-with-cli)
- [CLI options and commands](#cli-options-and-commands)
- [Examples](#examples)

> Cloud Pipeline CLI has to be installed. See [14.1. Install and setup CLI](14.1._Install_and_setup_CLI.md).

## Introduction

Working with a Cloud Pipeline from CLI has numerous benefits compared to GUI:

1. It has extra features which are not accessible from GUI such copying or moving files from one storage to another.
2. The uploading file size could exceed 10 Mb.
3. It is more convenient for System administrators.

## Working with CLI

All CLI commands have to be typed into the command line (Terminal) of the computer.

``` bash
pipe [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...
```

The **pipe** is a command-line interface for Cloud Pipeline. It has a number of available commands. Each command has a number of arguments as an input.  
To get a list of available options and commands type `pipe` or `pipe --help` into the command line.

## CLI options and commands

| Options |  |
|---|---|
| **`--version`** | Show CLI version and exit |
| **`--help`** | Show help message and exit |

| Commands |  |
|---|---|
| **`chown`** | Changes current owner to specified. |
| **`configure`** | Configures CLI parameters. This command doesn't require any arguments to start. You will be offered to enter token for API authentification, data presentation timezone and URL of pipeline API endpoint. This command can be automatically generated (see [here](../12_Manage_Settings/12._Manage_Settings.md#cli-tab)). For an example of the command using see [14.1. Install and setup CLI](14.1._Install_and_setup_CLI.md). |
| **`run`** | Schedules a pipeline execution. |
| **`set-acl`** | Set object permissions. For an example of the command using see [14.4. View and manage Permissions via CLI](14.4._View_and_manage_Permissions_via_CLI.md). |
| **`stop`** | Stops a running pipeline. |
| **`storage`** | Storage operations. For an example of the command using see [14.3. Manage Storage via CLI](14.3._Manage_Storage_via_CLI.md). |
| **`tag`** | Operations with tags. For an example of the command using see [14.2. View and manage Attributes via CLI](14.2._View_and_manage_Attributes_via_CLI.md). |
| **`terminate-node`** | Terminates calculation node. |
| **`view-acl`** | View object permissions. For an example of the command using see [14.4. View and manage Permissions via CLI](14.4._View_and_manage_Permissions_via_CLI.md). |
| **`view-cluster`** | Lists cluster nodes. |
| **`view-pipes`** | Lists pipelines definitions. |
| **`view-runs`** | Lists pipeline runs. |

**_Note_**: To see command's arguments and options type **`pipe command --help`**.

## Examples

To see a list of available CLI commands type **`pipe`** or **`pipe --help`** in the terminal.

![CP_CLI](attachments/CLI_1.png)

**_Note_**: each command might have its own set of commands that consequently might have their own set of commands... To learn more about a specific command, type the following in the terminal: **`pipe COMMAND --help`**.

For instance, we can list a number of **`pipe storage`** commands with **`pipe storage --help`**.  
![CP_CLI](attachments/CLI_2.png)

Another example - a user can see a list of pipelines runs by **`pipe view-runs`** command.  
![CP_CLI](attachments/CLI_3.png)

Commit message:

Docs: 'View & manage permissions via CLI' section updated, 'Change owner via CLI' section added

docs/md/manual/14_CLI/14._Command-line_interface.md, after:

# 14. Command-line interface (CLI)

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Working with CLI](#working-with-cli)
- [CLI options and commands](#cli-options-and-commands)
- [Examples](#examples)

> Cloud Pipeline CLI has to be installed. See [14.1. Install and setup CLI](14.1._Install_and_setup_CLI.md).

## Introduction

Working with a Cloud Pipeline from CLI has numerous benefits compared to GUI:

1. It has extra features which are not accessible from GUI such copying or moving files from one storage to another.
2. The uploading file size could exceed 10 Mb.
3. It is more convenient for System administrators.

## Working with CLI

All CLI commands have to be typed into the command line (Terminal) of the computer.

``` bash
pipe [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...
```

The **pipe** is a command-line interface for Cloud Pipeline. It has a number of available commands. Each command has a number of arguments as an input.  
To get a list of available options and commands type `pipe` or `pipe --help` into the command line.

## CLI options and commands

| Options |  |
|---|---|
| **`--version`** | Show CLI version and exit |
| **`--help`** | Show help message and exit |

| Commands |  |
|---|---|
| **`chown`** | Changes current owner to specified. Details of the command using see [here](14.4._View_and_manage_Permissions_via_CLI.md#change-owner-property). |
| **`configure`** | Configures CLI parameters. This command doesn't require any arguments to start. You will be offered to enter token for API authentification, data presentation timezone and URL of pipeline API endpoint. This command can be automatically [generated](../12_Manage_Settings/12._Manage_Settings.md#cli-tab). Details of the command using see [here](14.1._Install_and_setup_CLI.md). |
| **`run`** | Schedules a pipeline execution. |
| **`set-acl`** | Set object permissions. Details of the command using see [here](14.4._View_and_manage_Permissions_via_CLI.md#manage-permissions). |
| **`stop`** | Stops a running pipeline. |
| **`storage`** | Storage operations. Details of the command using see [here](14.3._Manage_Storage_via_CLI.md). |
| **`tag`** | Operations with attributes. Details of the command using see [here](14.2._View_and_manage_Attributes_via_CLI.md). |
| **`terminate-node`** | Terminates calculation node. |
| **`view-acl`** | View object permissions. Details of the command using see [here](14.4._View_and_manage_Permissions_via_CLI.md#view-permissions). |
| **`view-cluster`** | Lists cluster nodes. |
| **`view-pipes`** | Lists pipelines definitions. |
| **`view-runs`** | Lists pipeline runs. |

**_Note_**: To see command's arguments and options type **`pipe command --help`**.

## Examples

To see a list of available CLI commands type **`pipe`** or **`pipe --help`** in the terminal.

![CP_CLI](attachments/CLI_1.png)

**_Note_**: each command might have its own set of commands that consequently might have their own set of commands... To learn more about a specific command, type the following in the terminal: **`pipe COMMAND --help`**.

For instance, we can list a number of **`pipe storage`** commands with **`pipe storage --help`**.  
![CP_CLI](attachments/CLI_2.png)

Another example - a user can see a list of pipelines runs by **`pipe view-runs`** command.  
![CP_CLI](attachments/CLI_3.png)
