# Check "All pipelines" repository

**Prerequisites**:

- admin user
- non-admin user

**Preparations**:

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Library** page
3. Create the folder
4. Open the folder created at step 3
5. Create the pipeline from the template (e.g. _SHELL_)
6. Open the pipeline created at step 5
7. Click the **gear** icon in the right upper corner
8. Click the **Edit** button in the aappeared list
9. Click the **Permissions** tab
10. Add the non-admin user from the prerequisites to the permissions list
11. Allow _read_, _write_, _execute_ permissions to the user from the prerequisites
12. Close the pop-up
13. Repeat steps 4-10
14. Allow _read_ permissions to the user from the prerequisites
15. Close the pop-up
16. Repeat steps 4-5

**Actions**:

1. Login as non-admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Library** page
3. Click the "**All pipelines**" button
4. Click the row with the pipeline name created at step 5 of the preparations
5. Repeat steps 2-3
6. Click the **Run** button in the row with the pipeline name created at step 5 of the preparations
7. Repeat steps 2-3
8. Click the row with the pipeline name created at step 13 of the preparations

**After**:  
Remove the folder created at step 3 of the preparations with all its content

***

**Expected result**:

After step 2, in the library-tree panel, the control "**All pipelines**" appears

After step 3, the list of pipelines appears:

- the list contains the row for the pipeline created at step 5 of the preparations. It contains the pipeline name, username of the admin from the prerequisites, the **Run** button
- the list contains the row for the pipeline created at step 13 of the preparations. It contains the pipeline name, username of the admin from the prerequisites. **Run** button is missing
- the row for the pipeline created at step 16 of the preparations is missing

After step 4, the page of the pipeline created at step 5 of the preparations is opened

After step 6, the **Launch** page of the pipeline created at step 5 of the preparations is opened. The **Launch** button is available

After step 8, the **Launch** page of the pipeline created at step 13 of the preparations is opened. The **Launch** button is missing
