docs/md/manual/11_Manage_Runs/11.3._Sharing_with_other_users_or_groups_of_users.md, before:

# 11.3. Sharing with other users or groups of users

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Sharing a run with user(s)](#sharing-a-run-with-users)
- [Sharing a run with users group(s)](#sharing-a-run-with-users-groups)
- [Work with a sharing running instance (for not owners/admins)](#work-with-a-sharing-running-instance-for-not-ownersadmins)

## Overview

For certain use cases it is beneficial to be able to share applications with other users/groups. Cloud platform allows ability when runs environments will be accessed for several users, not only for the user, who launched the run (**OWNER**).  
Sharing of a run - allows to share as the interactive tools endpoints (e.g. _rstudio_, _jupyter_, _nomachine_, etc.) and SSH sessions too.

## Sharing a run with user(s)

In this example we will share a run with other user(s).  
> **_Note_**: for do that, user account shall be registered within CP users catalog and granted **READ** & **EXECUTE** for the pipeline/tool. User must be an **OWNER** of the running instance.

**_Note_**: in the example we will share a run of the RStudio tool (for more information about launching Tools see [10.5. Launch a Tool](../10_Manage_Tools/10.5._Launch_a_Tool.md)).

1. Open run logs of the instance:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_01.png)
2. Click the link near the label "**Share with**":  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_02.png)
3. In the opened pop-up window click ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_03.png) button.
4. In the appeared window enter user name, for whom you want to share running instance. Confirm selected user by clicking the **OK** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_04.png)
5. If necessary, add more users.  
    If you want to give a SSH-access to the instance - set the **Enable SSH connection** checkbox. If this checkbox is not set, only the interactive tools endpoints will be shared.  
    When finished, click the **Ok** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_05.png)
6. In the run logs, users names for whom you shared running instance will appear near the label **Share with**:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_06.png)
7. Copy the link near the label **Endpoint**, send it to users, for whom you shared the instance:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_07.png)

## Sharing a run with users group(s)

In this example we will share a run with other users group(s).  
> **_Note_**: for do that, user account shall be registered within CP users catalog and granted **READ** & **EXECUTE** for the pipeline/tool. User must be an **OWNER** of the running instance.

**_Note_**: in the example we will share a run of the RStudio tool (for more information about launching Tools see [10.5. Launch a Tool](../10_Manage_Tools/10.5._Launch_a_Tool.md)).

1. Open run logs of the instance:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_01.png)
2. Click the link near the label **Share with**:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_02.png)
3. In the opened pop-up window click ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_08.png) button.
4. In the appeared window enter user group's name, for which you want to share running instance. Confirm selected user group by click the **OK** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_09.png)
5. If necessary, add more groups.  
    If you want to give a SSH-access to the instance - set the **Enable SSH connection** checkbox. If this checkbox is not set, only the interactive tools endpoints will be shared.  
    When finished, click the **OK** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_10.png)
6. In the run logs, user group names, for which you shared running instance, will appear near the label **Share with**:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_15.png)
7. Copy the link near the label **Endpoint**, send it to users, for which group(s) you shared the instance:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_07.png)

## Work with a sharing running instance (for not owners/admins)

A current user can be accessed to a service, without running own jobs, if that service was shared for a current user or his group(s).  
**_Note_**: for do that, user account shall be registered within CP users catalog and granted "sharing" permission for the instance.

### Way 1

1. Log in at the Cloud Pipeline. Open a new tab in a browser and input the link of the sharing running instance, that you received.
2. The GUI of the Tool, of that running instance was shared, will be displayed. For example described above, it will be the RStudio GUI:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_11.png)

### Way 2

1. On the **Home dashboard** click ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_12.png) button.
2. In the opened popup enable the checkbox **SERVICES** and click the **OK** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_13.png)
3. On the appeared **SERVICES** widget at the **Home dashboard** page accessible "shared" services will be displayed:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_14.png)
4. Click it. The GUI of the Tool of the running shared instance will be displayed.  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_16.png)
5. If **Enable SSH connection** checkbox was set for a current user or his group(s) at the sharing configure form, a current user can get a SSH-access to the running instance. For that - hover over service "card" and click the **SSH** hyperlink:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_17.png)  
    A new page with the **Terminal access** to the shared instance will appear:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_18.png)

Commit message:

Update Cloud-Pipeline Docs (0.15 & 0.16) with description of new features (#991)
* Docs updated (warning when try to delete running tool; '-np' option for 'pipe run' command)

* 'Viewing of the historical resources utilization' was added into docs and RN016

* Description of "The ability to configure the schedule for an automatical pause/restart a job" was added into RN016 and docs

* 'Ability to find tools by version and package name' was added into RN016

* 'Ability to specify custom host name as a friendly URL' was added into RN015 and docs

* Description of 'The ability to restrict which run statuses trigger the email notification' was added into RN016

* Description of the 'Storage usage statistics via pipe' was added into docs and RN016

* 'Sharing SSH-access for the non-interactive runs' was added into docs and RN015

* 'Mounting mode' description was added into docs and RN016

* Descriptions of "Pass variations to the DIND container" and GE autoscaler bug were added into RN0.15

* 'System logs' section was added into RN016 and docs

docs/md/manual/11_Manage_Runs/11.3._Sharing_with_other_users_or_groups_of_users.md, after:

# 11.3. Sharing with other users or groups of users

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Sharing a run with user(s)](#sharing-a-run-with-users)
- [Sharing a run with users group(s)](#sharing-a-run-with-users-groups)
- [Work with a sharing running instance (for not owners/admins)](#work-with-a-sharing-running-instance-for-not-ownersadmins)

## Overview

For certain use cases it is beneficial to be able to share applications with other users/groups. Cloud platform allows ability when runs environments will be accessed for several users, not only for the user, who launched the run (**OWNER**).  
Sharing of a run - allows to share as the interactive tools endpoints (e.g. _rstudio_, _jupyter_, _nomachine_, etc.) and SSH sessions too.

## Sharing a run with user(s)

In this example we will share a run with other user(s).  
> **_Note_**: for do that, user account shall be registered within CP users catalog and granted **READ** & **EXECUTE** for the pipeline/tool. User must be an **OWNER** of the running instance.

**_Note_**: in the example we will share a run of the RStudio tool (for more information about launching Tools see [10.5. Launch a Tool](../10_Manage_Tools/10.5._Launch_a_Tool.md)).

1. Open run logs of the instance:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_01.png)
2. Click the link near the label "**Share with**":  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_02.png)
3. In the opened pop-up window click ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_03.png) button.
4. In the appeared window enter user name, for whom you want to share running instance. Confirm selected user by clicking the **OK** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_04.png)
5. If necessary, add more users.  
    If you want to give a SSH-access to the instance - set the **Enable SSH connection** checkbox. If this checkbox is not set, only the interactive tools endpoints will be shared.  
    When finished, click the **Ok** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_05.png)
6. In the run logs, users names for whom you shared running instance will appear near the label **Share with**:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_06.png)
7. Copy the link near the label **Endpoint**, send it to users, for whom you shared the instance:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_07.png)

> To share the SSH-access to a non-interactive run for the user - use the similar steps.  
> For a non-interactive run the "share" pop-up looks slightly different ("**Enable SSH connection**" checkboxes are missed):  
> ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_19.png)

## Sharing a run with users group(s)

In this example we will share a run with other users group(s).  
> **_Note_**: for do that, user account shall be registered within CP users catalog and granted **READ** & **EXECUTE** for the pipeline/tool. User must be an **OWNER** of the running instance.

**_Note_**: in the example we will share a run of the RStudio tool (for more information about launching Tools see [10.5. Launch a Tool](../10_Manage_Tools/10.5._Launch_a_Tool.md)).

1. Open run logs of the instance:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_01.png)
2. Click the link near the label **Share with**:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_02.png)
3. In the opened pop-up window click ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_08.png) button.
4. In the appeared window enter user group's name, for which you want to share running instance. Confirm selected user group by click the **OK** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_09.png)
5. If necessary, add more groups.  
    If you want to give a SSH-access to the instance - set the **Enable SSH connection** checkbox. If this checkbox is not set, only the interactive tools endpoints will be shared.  
    When finished, click the **OK** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_10.png)
6. In the run logs, user group names, for which you shared running instance, will appear near the label **Share with**:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_15.png)
7. Copy the link near the label **Endpoint**, send it to users, for which group(s) you shared the instance:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_07.png)

> To share the SSH-access to a non-interactive run for the user group - use the similar steps.  
> For a non-interactive run the "share" pop-up looks slightly different ("**Enable SSH connection**" checkboxes are missed):  
> ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_20.png)

## Work with a sharing running instance (for not owners/admins)

A current user can be accessed to a service, without running own jobs, if that service was shared for a current user or his group(s).  
**_Note_**: for do that, user account shall be registered within CP users catalog and granted "sharing" permission for the instance.

### Way 1

1. Log in at the Cloud Pipeline. Open a new tab in a browser and input the link of the sharing running instance, that you received.
2. The GUI of the Tool, of that running instance was shared, will be displayed. For example described above, it will be the RStudio GUI:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_11.png)

### Way 2

1. On the **Home dashboard** click ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_12.png) button.
2. In the opened popup enable the checkbox **SERVICES** and click the **OK** button:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_13.png)
3. On the appeared **SERVICES** widget at the **Home dashboard** page accessible "shared" services will be displayed:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_14.png)
4. Click it. The GUI of the Tool of the running shared instance will be displayed.  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_16.png)

### Way 3. For the runs with the shared SSH-access

If **Enable SSH connection** checkbox was set at the sharing configure form (for the interactive run) or the non-interactive run was shared with a current user or his group(s), the SSH-access to the running instance can be obtained. For that - hover over the service "card" in the **SERVICES** widget at the **Home dashboard** page and click the **SSH** hyperlink:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_17.png)  
    A new page with the **Terminal access** to the shared instance will appear:  
    ![CP_SharingRuns](attachments/SharingRuns_18.png)
