# Check "All storages" repository

**Prerequisites**:

- admin user
- non-admin user

**Preparations**:

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Library** page
3. Create the folder
4. Open the folder created at step 3
5. Create the object storage
6. Open the object storage created at step 5
7. Click the **gear** icon in the right upper corner
8. Click the **Edit** button in the aappeared list
9. Click the **Permissions** tab
10. Add the non-admin user from the prerequisites to the permissions list
11. Allow _read_ permission to the user from the prerequisites
12. Close the pop-up
13. Create a file in the storage
14. Repeat steps 4-5
15. Close the pop-up
16. Repeat step 4
17. Create the FS mount
18. Open the FS mount created at step 17
19. Repeat steps 7-13

**Actions**:

1. Login as non-admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Library** page
3. Click the "**All storages**" button
4. Click the row with the storage name created at step 5 of the preparations
5. Repeat steps 2-3
6. Click the row with the FS mount name created at step 17 of the preparations

**After**:  
Remove the folder created at step 3 of the preparations with all its content

***

**Expected result**:

After step 2, in the library-tree panel, the control "**All storages**" appears

After step 3, the list of storages appears that contains:

- the row for the storage created at step 5 of the preparations. It contains the storage name, username of the admin from the prerequisites
- the row for the storage created at step 14 is missing
- the row for the FS mount created at step 17 of the preparations. It contains the FS mount path, username of the admin from the prerequisites

After step 4, the page of the storage created at step 5 of the preparations is opened. The button **Create** is missing. The file created at step 13 is displayed in the storage

After step 6, the page of the FS mount created at step 17 of the preparations is opened. The button **Create** is missing. The file created at step 19 is displayed in the mount
