# Check transfer between regions

**_Note_**: this testcase is valid only in `AWS` deployment

**Prerequisites**:

- admin user
- there should be at least 2 different cloud region in the current deployment

**Actions**:

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Library** page
3. Create the object storage in some cloud region
4. Open the created storage
5. Create a simple file in the storage
6. Open the **Library** page
7. Create the object storage in some cloud region distinct from the region at step 3
8. Open the **Tools** page
9. Select any tool (e.g. _ubuntu_)
10. Launch the tool
11. At the **Runs** page, click the just-launched run
12. Wait until the **SSH** hyperlink appears
13. Click the **SSH** hyperlink
14. In the opened tab, enter and perform the command: `pipe storage cp <storage1>/<file> <storage2>/` where \<storage1\> - the full path of the storage created at step 3, \<storage2\> - the full path of the storage created at step 7, \<file\> - the file name created at step 5
15. Close the tab
16. Open the **Library** page
17. Open the storage created at step 7
18. Open the storage created at step 3
19. Delete the file created at step 5
20. Open the **Runs** page
21. Repeat steps 11, 13
22. In the opened tab, enter and perform the command: `pipe storage mv <storage2>/<file> <storage1>/` where \<storage1\> - the full path of the storage created at step 3, \<storage2\> - the full path of the storage created at step 7, \<file\> - the file name created at step 5
23. Repeat steps 15-17
24. Repeat step 18

**After**:  
Remove object storages created at steps 3, 7

***

**Expected result**:

After step 17, the storage contains the file equals to the file created at step 5

After step 19, the storage created at step 3 is empty

After step 23, the storage created at step 7 is empty

After step 24, the storage contains the file equals to the file created at step 5
