docs/md/manual/08_Manage_Data_Storage/8._Manage_Data_Storage.md, before:

# 8. Manage Data Storage

**Data storage** is a Cloud Pipeline object that represents cloud storage and its content in a folder hierarchy.

- [Controls](#controls)
    - [Select page](#select-page)
    - [Show file versions](#show-file-versions)
    - [Remove all selected](#remove-all-selected)
    - [Generate URL](#generate-url)
    - [Show attributes/Hide attributes](#show-attributeshide-attributes)
    - ["Gear" icon](#gear-icon)
    - [Refresh](#refresh)
    - [+ Create](#create)
    - [Upload](#upload)
    - [Each-line controls](#each-line-controls)
- [View and edit a text file](#view-and-edit-a-text-file)
- [CLI Storage options](#cli-storage-options)

> Permissions management for a storage is described [here](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).

**"Details view"** lists content of the storage: files that may be organized into folders. Clicking on the inside folder will open its content in the **"Details view"**.  
**_Note_**: storage's folders hierarchy will not be represented in the **"Hierarchy view"** panel.  
**_Note_**: you can move **Storage** to a new parent folder using drag and drop approach.

In **"Library tree view"** and **"Details view"** data storages are tagged with region flag to visually distinguish storage locations.  
![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_1.png)

**Figure 1**  
![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_2.png)

Another option for navigation in the storage is to use ["breadcrumbs"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadcrumb_(navigation)) control at the top of the **"Details"** view (see picture above, **1**):

- Clicking an item will navigate to that folder.  
    ![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_3.png)
- Editing a path will allow to copy/paste a path and navigate to any custom location.  
    ![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_4.png)

## Controls

At the top of the **"Details"** view there are buttons:

### Select page

Clicking this control (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **2**), the whole file and folders on the current page will be selected. It allows to perform bulk operations like deleting.

### Show file versions

> This feature is available not for all Cloud Providers. Currently, it is supported by **AWS** and **GCP**.

Tick this checkbox (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **3**) and the view of a page will changed: the all file versions will be displayed. You can expand each version's list by clicking "**+**" in desired line.  
**_Note_**: the last version will be marked by "**(latest)**".

### Remove all selected

This is a bulk operation control. It is visible, if at least one of the data storage item (folder or file) is selected.  
![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_5.png)

### Generate URL

This control helps to generate URLs for a number of files and then download them manually one by one or via scripts. See details [here](8.2._Upload_Download_data.md).  
**_Note_**: the control is available, if only files are selected.

![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_6.png)

### Show attributes/Hide attributes

Allows see or edit a list of **key=value** attributes of the data storage (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **4**).  
**_Note_**: If selected storage has any defined attribute, **Attributes** pane is shown by default. See [17. CP objects tagging by additional attributes](../17_Tagging_by_attributes/17._CP_objects_tagging_by_additional_attributes.md).

### "Gear" icon

Allows to edit the path, alias, description of the storage, manage its STS and LTS and enable versions control (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **5**). The delete option is also here (if storage contains only metadata, it will be deleted anyway). See [8.1. Create and edit storage](8.1._Create_and_edit_storage.md).

### Refresh

Allows updating representation of storage's contents (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **6**).

### + Create

You can also create new folders and files via this button (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **7**). See [8.3. Create and Edit text files](8.3._Create_and_Edit_text_files.md).

### Upload

This control allows uploading files to the storage (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **8**). See [8.2. Upload/Download data](8.2._Upload_Download_data.md).

### Each-line controls

![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_7.png)

| Control  | Description |
|---|---|
| **Download** | This control calls downloading of selected file. |
| **Edit** | Helps to rename a file or a folder. |
| **Delete** | Delete a file or a folder. |

## View and edit a text file

You can view and edit text files. For more details see [here](8.3._Create_and_Edit_text_files.md).  
![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_8.png)

## CLI Storage options

There are also several options that are only implemented in CLI but not in GUI:

- To move files and folders from one storage to another or between local file system and storage.
- To copy files from one storage to another.

See [here](../14_CLI/14.3._Manage_Storage_via_CLI.md) for more details.

Commit message:

Docs update to v.0.16 (#542)
* Docs updated to v.0.14

* Renewed WDL Graph added to docs

* Sections about new email notifications, mount limits, SSH address selector, renewed Cluster config were added to the docs

* Sections about terminate, new states, renewed dashboard were added to the docs

* Section about swap setup was added to the docs

* Sections about pre/post-commit hooks, additional logs were added to the docs

* Preferences section was updated

* Release notes v.0.15 updated with backported items

* Initial version of Release Notes 0.16 added

* Release notes updated ('Storage mounts data transfer restrictor', 'Symlinks handling for pipe operations', short descriptions for a few fixed bugs)

* Short descriptions for a few bug fixes were added into Release Notes v.0.16

* Docs sections about 'Cloud Provider's icon displaying for storage/compute resources' added

* Minor fixes in docs

* Scroll of the documents-tree panel to the current opened page added

* Docs: 'Attribute management via CLI' section was updated

* Minor fixes

* Docs: 'View & manage permissions via CLI' section updated, 'Change owner via CLI' section added

* Docs: 'Manage storage via CLI' section reworked and updated

docs/md/manual/08_Manage_Data_Storage/8._Manage_Data_Storage.md, after:

# 8. Manage Data Storage

**Data storage** is a Cloud Pipeline object that represents cloud storage and its content in a folder hierarchy.

- [Controls](#controls)
    - [Select page](#select-page)
    - [Show file versions](#show-file-versions)
    - [Remove all selected](#remove-all-selected)
    - [Generate URL](#generate-url)
    - [Show attributes/Hide attributes](#show-attributeshide-attributes)
    - ["Gear" icon](#gear-icon)
    - [Refresh](#refresh)
    - [+ Create](#create)
    - [Upload](#upload)
    - [Each-line controls](#each-line-controls)
- [View and edit a text file](#view-and-edit-a-text-file)
- [CLI Storage options](#cli-storage-options)

> Permissions management for a storage is described [here](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).

**"Details view"** lists content of the storage: files that may be organized into folders. Clicking on the inside folder will open its content in the **"Details view"**.  
**_Note_**: storage's folders hierarchy will not be represented in the **"Hierarchy view"** panel.  
**_Note_**: you can move **Storage** to a new parent folder using drag and drop approach.

In **"Library tree view"** and **"Details view"** data storages are tagged with region flag to visually distinguish storage locations.  
![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_1.png)

> **_Note_**: if a specific platform deployment has a number of Cloud Providers registered (e.g. `AWS`+`Azure`, `GCP`+`Azure`) - in that case auxiliary Cloud Provider icons are additionally displayed, e.g.:  
> ![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_9.png)

**Figure 1**  
![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_2.png)

Another option for navigation in the storage is to use ["breadcrumbs"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadcrumb_(navigation)) control at the top of the **"Details"** view (see picture above, **1**):

- Clicking an item will navigate to that folder.  
    ![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_3.png)
- Editing a path will allow to copy/paste a path and navigate to any custom location.  
    ![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_4.png)

## Controls

At the top of the **"Details"** view there are buttons:

### Select page

Clicking this control (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **2**), the whole file and folders on the current page will be selected. It allows to perform bulk operations like deleting.

### Show file versions

> This feature is available not for all Cloud Providers. Currently, it is supported by **AWS** and **GCP**.

Tick this checkbox (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **3**) and the view of a page will changed: the all file versions will be displayed. You can expand each version's list by clicking "**+**" in desired line.  
**_Note_**: the last version will be marked by "**(latest)**".

### Remove all selected

This is a bulk operation control. It is visible, if at least one of the data storage item (folder or file) is selected.  
![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_5.png)

### Generate URL

This control helps to generate URLs for a number of files and then download them manually one by one or via scripts. See details [here](8.2._Upload_Download_data.md).  
**_Note_**: the control is available, if only files are selected.

![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_6.png)

### Show attributes/Hide attributes

Allows see or edit a list of **key=value** attributes of the data storage (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **4**).  
**_Note_**: If selected storage has any defined attribute, **Attributes** pane is shown by default. See [17. CP objects tagging by additional attributes](../17_Tagging_by_attributes/17._CP_objects_tagging_by_additional_attributes.md).

### "Gear" icon

Allows to edit the path, alias, description of the storage, manage its STS and LTS and enable versions control (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **5**). The delete option is also here (if storage contains only metadata, it will be deleted anyway). See [8.1. Create and edit storage](8.1._Create_and_edit_storage.md).

### Refresh

Allows updating representation of storage's contents (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **6**).

### + Create

You can also create new folders and files via this button (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **7**). See [8.3. Create and Edit text files](8.3._Create_and_Edit_text_files.md).

### Upload

This control allows uploading files to the storage (see picture **Figure 1** above, item **8**). See [8.2. Upload/Download data](8.2._Upload_Download_data.md).

### Each-line controls

![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_7.png)

| Control  | Description |
|---|---|
| **Download** | This control calls downloading of selected file. |
| **Edit** | Helps to rename a file or a folder. |
| **Delete** | Delete a file or a folder. |

## View and edit a text file

You can view and edit text files. For more details see [here](8.3._Create_and_Edit_text_files.md).  
![CP_ManageDataStorage](attachments/ManageDataStorage_8.png)

## CLI Storage options

There are also several options that are only implemented in CLI but not in GUI:

- To move files and folders from one storage to another or between local file system and storage.
- To copy files from one storage to another.

See [here](../14_CLI/14.3._Manage_Storage_via_CLI.md) for more details.
