# Check pipeline sources for previous draft versions

**Actions**:

1. Open the **Library** page
2. Create the pipeline from the **DEFAULT** template
3. Open the pipeline created at step 2
4. Click the pipeline version
5. Save the page address
6. Click the **EDIT** button for the `README.md` file
7. Insert a new row into the file content
8. Click the **SAVE** button
9. Specify a valid commit message, confirm the commit
10. Save the page address
11. Click the **CODE** tab
12. Click the `config.json` file
13. Save the value of the `instance_disk`
14. Click the **EDIT** button
15. Set a new valid value of the `instance_disk`
16. Click the **SAVE** button
17. Specify a valid commit message, confirm the commit
18. Repeat step 12
19. Insert the address saved at step 5 into the address bar, press Enter key
20. Repeat steps 11-12
21. Insert the address saved at step 10 into the address bar, press Enter key
22. Repeat step 12
23. Click the **CLOSE** button
24. Click the **DOCUMENTS** tab

***

**Expected result**:

After step 9:

- `README.md` section contains the row inserted at step 7
- the page address distincts from the address saved at step 5

After step 18:

- the value of the `instance_disk` equals to the set one at step 15
- the page address distincts from the address saved at step 10

After step 19, `README.md` section doesn't contain the row inserted at step 7

After steps 20, 22 the value of the `instance_disk` equals to the saved one at step 13

After step 24, `README.md` section contains the row inserted at step 7
