# Check custom node image for the pipeline run

**Prerequisites**:

- admin user

**Preparations**:

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Library** page
3. Create the pipeline from the **DEFAULT** template
4. Repeat step 3
5. Open the pipeline created at step 3
6. Click the pipeline version
7. Click the **CONFIGURATION** tab
8. Expand the "**Exec environment**" section
9. Save the "**Cloud Region**" value
10. Open the "**System Settings**" page
11. Click the **PREFERENCES** tab
12. Find the preference **`cluster.networks.config`**
13. In the value of this preference, find the block of the region in `regions` array with `name` equals to the name saved at step 9
14. In the found region block, find the block of the ami in `amis` array with `instance_mask` equals `*`. Save the `ami` value
15. In the found region block, find any block of the ami in `amis` array with `instance_mask` not equals `*`. Save the `ami` value (_**note**: it should distinct from the saved at step 14_)

**Actions**:

1. Open the **Library** page
2. Open the pipeline created at step 3 of the preparations
3. Click the pipeline version
4. Click the **CODE** tab
5. Click the `config.json` file
6. Click the **EDIT** button
7. Insert the following code into the `configuration` section: `"instance_image": "<node_image>",` - where \<node_image\> is `ami` value saved at step 15 of the preparations
8. Click the **SAVE** button
9. Specify the commit message, commit changes
10. Click the **RUN** button
11. Launch the run
12. Click the just-launched run at the **Runs** page
13. Click the **Instance** section to expand
14. Wait until the run will be completed
15. Click the **InitializeNode** task

***

**Expected result**:

After step 13, **Instance** section contains the row `Node image: <node_image>` - where \<node_image\> is `ami` value saved at step 15 of the preparations

After step 14, run is completed with the **SUCCESS** state

After step 15, run logs contain rows:

- `Image: <node_image>`
- `Specified in configuration image <node_image> will be used`  
where \<node_image\> is `ami` value saved at step 15 of the preparations
