# Search for Storage by the attributes.

**Prerequisites**:
- admin user
- perform [1837_3](1837_3.md)

**Preparations:**

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites.
2. Open **Library** page.
3. Open storage (`storage1`) created at Preparations of 1837_3.
4. Open **Attributes** panel and click **+Add** button.
5. Click into the **Key** field and select `Dict2` name from dropdown list.
6. Click into the **Value** field and select `Value2` from dropdown list. Click **Add** button.

**Actions**:

1. Click on **Search** icon at the left menu bar.
2. Navigate to `Dict2` filter.
3. Select `Value2` control.
4. Click the `info` icon for the found `storage1` in an appeared list
5. `Ctrl +` Click on the found `storage1` name
6. Click **Table** button to switch page to table view
7. Click on the found `storage1` name

***
**Expected result:**

After step 2: the count of the objects associated with `Value2` is more or equal 1

After step 3:
- List with the search results that contains at least of `storage1` appears
- **DATA** button is shown count of found entities that is more or equal 1
- Other filters are updated:
    - Count of associated objects changes according to the new selected condition
    - Entries are sorted by updated count descending
    - Entries that has no common associated objects with the selected filter value are disabled and has 0 value as a count of associated objects

After step 4: preview panel appears that contains:
- Storage name that is equal to the name `storage1`
- Attribute `Dict2` with value `Value2`
- Table with `file1` created at Preparations steps info

After step 5: the `storage1` page opens in the new browser tab

After step 6: `Value2` is shown in `Dict2` column for `storage1`

After step 7: the `storage1` page opens in the same browser tab