# Search for File by the attributes.

**Prerequisites**:
- admin user
- perform [1837_3](1837_3.md)

**Preparations:**

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites.
2. Open **Library** page.
3. Open `storage1`
4. Open file (`file1`) created at Preparations of 1837_3.
5. Open **Attributes** panel and click **+Add** button.
6. Click into the **Key** field and select `Dict3` name from dropdown list.
7. Click into the **Value** field and select `Value3` from dropdown list. Click **Add** button.

**Actions**:

1. Click on **Search** icon at the left menu bar.
2. Navigate to `Dict3` filter.
3. Select `Value3` control.
4. Click the `info` icon for the found `file1` in an appeared list
5. `Ctrl +` Click on the found `file1` name
6. Click **Table** button to switch page to table view
7. Click on the found `file1` name

***
**Expected result:**

After step 2: the count of the objects associated with `Value3` is more or equal 1

After step 3:
- List with the search results that contains at least of `file1` appears
- **DATA** button is shown count of found entities that is more or equal 1

After step 4: preview panel appears that contains:
- File name that is equal to the name `file1`
- Attribute `Dict3` with value `Value3`
- `storage1` name
- Full file path
- Content of `file1`

After step 5: the `storage1` page that contains `file1` opens in the new browser tab

After step 6: `Value3` is shown in `Dict3` column for `file1`

After step 7: the `storage1` page that contains `file1` opens in the same browser tab