# Search for folder by the attributes.

**Prerequisites**:
- admin user
- perform 1837_1, 1838_2 cases

**Preparations:**

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites.
2. Open **Library** page.
3. Create a folder (`folder1`).
4. Open `folder1`.
5. Open **Attributes** panel and click **+Add** button.
6. Click into the **Key** field and select `Dict1` name from dropdown list.
7. Click into the **Value** field and select `Value1` from dropdown list. Click **Add** button.
8. Create pipeline (`pipeline1`)
9. Create storage (`storage1`)
10. Open `storage1` and create file (`file1`)

**Actions**:

1. Click on **Search** icon at the left menu bar.
2. Navigate to `Dict1` filter.
3. Select `Value1` control.
4. Hover over the found `folder1` in an appeared list
5. `Ctrl +` Click on the found `folder1` name
6. Click **Table** button to switch page to table view
7. Click **Clear filters** button
8. Enter `folder1` name into the searh string
9. Click **Search** button
10. Click on the found `folder1` name

***
**Expected result:**

After step 2: the count of the objects associated with `Value1` is more or equal 1

After step 3:
- List with the search results that contains at least of `folder1` appears
- **FOLDERS** button is shown count of found entities that is more or equal 1

After step 4: preview panel appears that contains:
- Folder name that is equal to the name `folder1`
- Attribute `Dict1` with value `Value1`
- `pipeline1` and `storage1` created at Preparations steps

After step 5: the `folder1` page opens in the new browser tab

After step 6: `Value1` is shown in `Dict1` column for `folder1`

After step 3:
- List with the search results that contains at least of `folder1` appears
- **FOLDERS** button is shown count of found entities that is more or equal 1
- For the `Dict1` filter count of the objects associated with `Value1` control is more or equal 1

After step 10: the `folder1` page opens in the same browser tab