# Check `pipe storage ls` paging

**Prerequisites**:

- admin user

**Actions**:

1. Login as admin user from the prerequisites
2. Open the **Library** page
3. Create the object storage with enabled versioning
4. Open the created storage
5. Create a folder in the storage
6. Repeat step 5 three times
7. Create a simple file in the storage
8. Repeat step 7
9. Open the **Tools** page
10. Select any tool (e.g. _ubuntu_)
11. Launch the tool
12. At the **Runs** page, click the just-launched run
13. Wait until the **SSH** hyperlink appears
14. Click the **SSH** hyperlink
15. In the opened tab, enter and perform the command: `pipe storage ls <storage>/` where \<storage\> - the full path of the storage created at step 3
16. Enter and perform the command: `pipe storage ls --page 2 <storage>/` where \<storage\> - the full path of the storage created at step 3
17. Enter and perform the command: `pipe storage ls -p 4 <storage>/` where \<storage\> - the full path of the storage created at step 3

***

**Expected result**:

After step 15, the output contains 6 elements with names as folders/files created at steps 5-8

After step 16, the output contains 2 first elements from the list of folders and files names created at steps 5-8 sorted alphabetically (**_note_**: output contains folders firstly and files secondly)

After step 17, the output contains 4 first elements from the list of folders and files names created at steps 5-8 sorted alphabetically (**_note_**: output contains folders firstly and files secondly)
