docs/md/manual/10_Manage_Tools/10.2._Add_Edit_a_Tool_group.md, before:

# 10.2. Add/Edit a Tool group

- [Add a generic Tool group](#add-a-generic-tool-group)
- [Add a personal Tool group](#add-a-personal-tool-group)
- [Edit a Tool group](#edit-a-tool-group)
    - [Customize Tool group permissions](#customize-tool-group-permissions)

A Tool group is an object of the Cloud Pipeline that allows to organize Tools into groups. This page describes the process of adding and editing Tool groups. Also here you will find information about permission management for Tool groups.

> To create a Tool group, user need to have **WRITE** permission for a Docker registry and the **ROLE\_TOOL\_GROUP\_MANAGER** role. To edit Tool group parameters you need to have **WRITE** permissions for it. For more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).

## Add a generic Tool group

A Tool group can be added to a Docker registry in the following way:

1. In the **Tools** tab click the **Gear** icon → **Group → + Create**.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_1.png)
2. Give your Tool group a **name** and an optional **description**.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_2.png)
3. You'll be automatically redirected to the new Tool group in the current Docker registry.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_3.png)

## Add a personal Tool group

1. In the **Tools** tab click the **Gear** icon → **Group → + Create personal**.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_4.png)
2. Another way to do that is to select **personal** Tool group from the Tool group list  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_5.png)  
    And then press the **Create personal tool group** button.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_6.png)  
    After that you'll be able to upload Tools to your personal Tool group.

## Edit a Tool group

1. Choose a Tool group and click the **Gear** icon → **Group → Edit**.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_7.png)
2. You'll be able to modify Tool group description in the **Info** tab.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_8.png)
3. If you wish to delete a Tool group - click the **Gear** icon → **Group → Delete**.

### Customize Tool group permissions

Users with **ROLE\_ADMIN** or **OWNER** rights can modify permissions for this Tool group. It is convenient when you want to manage access for the whole Tool group and not for the individual Tools. For more details see [here](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).

Commit message:

Update Cloud-Pipeline Docs (0.15 & 0.16) with description of new features (#991)
* Docs updated (warning when try to delete running tool; '-np' option for 'pipe run' command)

* 'Viewing of the historical resources utilization' was added into docs and RN016

* Description of "The ability to configure the schedule for an automatical pause/restart a job" was added into RN016 and docs

* 'Ability to find tools by version and package name' was added into RN016

* 'Ability to specify custom host name as a friendly URL' was added into RN015 and docs

* Description of 'The ability to restrict which run statuses trigger the email notification' was added into RN016

* Description of the 'Storage usage statistics via pipe' was added into docs and RN016

* 'Sharing SSH-access for the non-interactive runs' was added into docs and RN015

* 'Mounting mode' description was added into docs and RN016

* Descriptions of "Pass variations to the DIND container" and GE autoscaler bug were added into RN0.15

* 'System logs' section was added into RN016 and docs

docs/md/manual/10_Manage_Tools/10.2._Add_Edit_a_Tool_group.md, after:

# 10.2. Add/Edit a Tool group

- [Add a generic Tool group](#add-a-generic-tool-group)
- [Add a personal Tool group](#add-a-personal-tool-group)
- [Edit/delete a Tool group](#editdelete-a-tool-group)
    - [Customize Tool group permissions](#customize-tool-group-permissions)

A Tool group is an object of the Cloud Pipeline that allows to organize Tools into groups. This page describes the process of adding and editing Tool groups. Also here you will find information about permission management for Tool groups.

> To create a Tool group, user need to have **WRITE** permission for a Docker registry and the **ROLE\_TOOL\_GROUP\_MANAGER** role. To edit Tool group parameters you need to have **WRITE** permissions for it. For more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).

## Add a generic Tool group

A Tool group can be added to a Docker registry in the following way:

1. In the **Tools** tab click the **Gear** icon → **Group → + Create**.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_1.png)
2. Give your Tool group a **name** and an optional **description**:  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_2.png)  
    Click the **CREATE** button to confirm.
3. You'll be automatically redirected to the new Tool group in the current Docker registry.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_3.png)

## Add a personal Tool group

1. In the **Tools** tab click the **Gear** icon → **Group → + Create personal**.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_4.png)
2. Another way to do that is to select **personal** Tool group from the Tool group list  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_5.png)  
    And then press the **Create personal tool group** button.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_6.png)  
    After that you'll be able to upload Tools to your personal Tool group.

## Edit/delete a Tool group

1. Choose a Tool group and click the **Gear** icon → **Group → Edit**.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_7.png)
2. You'll be able to modify Tool group description in the **Info** tab.  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_8.png)
3. If you wish to delete a Tool group:
    - click the **Gear** icon → **Group → Delete**:  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_9.png)
    - set the "Delete child tools" checkbox if the group is not empty and click the **Delete** button to confirm:  
    ![CP_AddEditToolGroup](attachments/AddEditToolGroup_10.png)

### Customize Tool group permissions

Users with **ROLE\_ADMIN** or **OWNER** rights can modify permissions for this Tool group. It is convenient when you want to manage access for the whole Tool group and not for the individual Tools. For more details see [here](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).
