docs/md/manual/10_Manage_Tools/10.5._Launch_a_Tool.md, before:

# 10.5. Launch a Tool

- [Launch the latest version](#launch-the-latest-version)
- [Launch particular Tool version](#launch-particular-tool-version)
- [Launch a Tool with "friendly" URL](#launch-a-tool-with-friendly-url)
- [Instance management](#instance-management)

> To launch a Tool you need to have **EXECUTE** permissions for it. For more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).
>
> You also can launch a tool via CLI. See [here](../14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md#run-a-tool).

## Launch the latest version

1. To run an instance with a selected **Tool** navigate to the **Tools** tab and click the **Tool name**.
2. Click the **Run** button in the top-right corner of the screen and the latest version with default settings will be launched (these are defined for Cloud Pipeline globally).  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_01.png)
3. If you want to change settings, you shall click the arrow near the **Run** button → **Custom settings**.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_02.png)
4. **Launch tool** page will be opened.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_03.png)  
5. If the **Price type** is set as "_On-demand_" - at the **Launch page**, an additional checkbox **Auto pause** appears:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_23.png)  
    This checkbox allows to enable automatic pausing on-demand instance if it is not used. Such behavior could be controlled by Administrators using a set of parameters at System Preferences (see [here](../12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md#system)).

    > Please note, this checkbox will not be displayed if any cluster is configured ("Static" or "Autoscaled").

6. If the **Price type** is set as "_On-demand_" - at the **Launch page**, an additional control **Maintenance** appears. It allows to configure schedule for automatical pause/resume a tool run:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_26.png)  
    It could be useful when the tool is launched for a long time (several days/weeks) but it shall not stand idle, just increasing costs, in weekends and holidays, for example.  
    For more details, how to configure the automatically schedule for a run see [6.2. Launch a pipeline](../06_Manage_Pipeline/6.2._Launch_a_pipeline.md) (item 5).  

    > Please note, the **Maintenance** control will not be displayed if any cluster is configured ("Static" or "Autoscaled").

    Users (who have permissions to pause/resume a run) can create/view/modify/delete schedule rules anytime launched run is active via the **Run logs** page - for more details see [11. Manage runs](../11_Manage_Runs/11._Manage_Runs.md#maintenance).

7. Define the parameters in the **Exec environment**, **Advanced** and **Parameters** sections.
8. Click the **Launch** button in the top-right corner of the screen.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_24.png)  
    Please note, that the current user can launch a tool only if he/his group has corresponding permissions on that tool (for more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md)), but the **Launch** button may be disabled also for one of the following reasons:

    - `execution` isn't allowed for specified docker image;
    - `read` operations aren't allowed for specified **input** or **common** path parameters;
    - `write` operations aren't allowed for specified **output** path parameters.

    In such cases, hover over the **Launch** button to view warning notification with a reason of a run forbiddance, e.g.:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](../../release_notes/v.0.15/attachments/RN015_PermissionsVerification_2.png)  

> **_Note_**: you can also launch a tool with the same settings via the `CLI` command or `API` request.  
> To generate the corresponding command/request click the button ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_25.png) near the "Launch" button. For more details see [here](../14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md#generate-pipeline-launch-command-via-the-gui).

## Launch particular Tool version

1. To run a particular version click the **Versions** section.
2. Select a version and click the **Run** button. The selected version with default settings will be launched (these are defined for Cloud Pipeline globally).  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_04.png)
3. If you want to change settings, you shall click the arrow near the **Run** button → **Custom settings**.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_05.png)
4. **Launch a tool** page will be opened.
5. Define the parameters.
6. Click the "**Launch**" button.

### Example 1

In this example, we will run the "**Ubuntu**" Tool with custom settings: **30 Gb** hard drive, **4 CPU** cores, and **16 Gb** RAM.  
**_Note_**: "Start idle" box is ticked to allow **SSH** access to the running Tool. To learn more about interactive services see [15. Interactive services](../15_Interactive_services/15._Interactive_services.md).  
Click the **Launch** button in the top-right corner of the screen when all parameters are set.  
![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_06.png)

After the **Tool** is launched you will be redirected to the **Runs** tab:

1. Click the **Log** button to see run details after instance finishes initialization.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_07.png)
2. Wait until the **SSH** button will appear at the **Run logs** page, click it  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_08.png)
3. You will be redirected to the page with interactive shell session inside the Docker container. For example, we can list "/" directory content inside the container.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_09.png)

## Launch a Tool with "friendly" URL

User can specify a "Friendly URL" for persistent services. This produces endpoint URL in a more friendly/descriptive format: {cloud-pipeline\_url}/`friendly_url` instead of {cloud-pipeline\_url}/`pipeline-XXXX-XXXX`. It can be configured at a service launch time in the "**Advanced**" section of the Launch form.

### Example 2

In this example we will configure a pretty URL for rstudio Tool.  
**_Note_**: for do that, user account shall be registered within CP users catalog and granted **READ** & **EXECUTE** permissions for the rstudio Tool.

1. Navigate to the **Tools** tab.
2. In the **Default registry** select the **library/rstudio** Tool:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_10.png)
3. On opened page hover the "**Run**" button and click on appeared "**Custom settings**" point:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_11.png)
4. Click on "**Advanced**" control (**a**), input desired "**Friendly URL**" (**b**) (name shall be unique) and then click "**Launch**" button (**c**):  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_12.png)
5. Open logs page of rstudio Tool, wait until tool successfully started.
6. Click on hyperlink opposite "**Endpoint**" label:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_13.png)
7. In a new tab RStudio will be opened. Check, the URL will be in "pretty" format, that you inputted on step 4:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_14.png)

## Instance management

Instance management allows to set restrictions on instance types and price types for tool runs.

> User shall have **ROLE\_ADMIN** or to be an **OWNER** of the Tool to launch **Instance management** panel. For more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).

To open **Instance management** panel:

1. Click ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_15.png) button in the left upper corner of the main tool page.
2. Click "Instance management":  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_16.png)
3. Such panel will be shown:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_17.png)

On this panel you can specify some restrictions on allowed instance types and price types for launching tool.

Here you can specify:

| Field | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| **Allowed tool instance types mask** | This mask restrict for a tool allowed instance types. | If you want for that tool only some of "large m5..." instances types will be able, mask would be `m5*.large*`<br />![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_18.png)<br />In that case, before launching tool, dropdown list of available node types will be look like this:<br />![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_19.png) |
| **Allowed price types** | In this field you may restrict, what price types will be allowed for a user. | If you want "On-demand" runs only for that tool will be able, select it in the dropdown list:<br />![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_20.png)<br />In that case, before launching tool, dropdown list of price types will be look like this:<br />![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_21.png) |

To apply set restrictions for a tool click ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_22.png) button.

Setting restrictions on allowed instance types/price types is a convenient way to minimize a number of invalid configurations runs.  
Such restrictions could be set not only for a tool, but on another levels too.  
In CP platform next hierarchy is set for applying of inputted allowed instance types (sorted by priority):

- User level (specified for a user on "User management" tab) (see [v.0.14 - 12.4. Edit/delete a user](../12_Manage_Settings/12.4._Edit_delete_a_user.md#launch-options))
- User group level (specified for a group (role) on "User management" tab. If a user is a member of several groups - list of allowed instances will be summarized across all the groups) (see [v.0.14 - 12.6. Edit a group/role](../12_Manage_Settings/12.6._Edit_a_group_role.md#launch-options))
- Tool level (specified for a tool on "Instance management" panel) (see [above](#instance-management))
- _(global)_ **`cluster.allowed.instance.types.docker`** (specified on "Cluster" tab in "Preferences" section of system-level settings) (see [v.0.14 - 12.10. Manage system-level settings](../12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md#cluster))
- _(global)_ **`cluster.allowed.instance.types`** (specified on "Cluster" tab in "Preferences" section of system-level settings) (see [v.0.14 - 12.10. Manage system-level settings](../12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md#cluster))

Commit message:

'Ability to specify custom host name as a friendly URL' was added into RN015 and docs

docs/md/manual/10_Manage_Tools/10.5._Launch_a_Tool.md, after:

# 10.5. Launch a Tool

- [Launch the latest version](#launch-the-latest-version)
- [Launch particular Tool version](#launch-particular-tool-version)
- [Launch a Tool with "friendly" URL](#launch-a-tool-with-friendly-url)
- [Instance management](#instance-management)

> To launch a Tool you need to have **EXECUTE** permissions for it. For more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).
>
> You also can launch a tool via CLI. See [here](../14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md#run-a-tool).

## Launch the latest version

1. To run an instance with a selected **Tool** navigate to the **Tools** tab and click the **Tool name**.
2. Click the **Run** button in the top-right corner of the screen and the latest version with default settings will be launched (these are defined for Cloud Pipeline globally).  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_01.png)
3. If you want to change settings, you shall click the arrow near the **Run** button → **Custom settings**.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_02.png)
4. **Launch tool** page will be opened.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_03.png)  
5. If the **Price type** is set as "_On-demand_" - at the **Launch page**, an additional checkbox **Auto pause** appears:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_23.png)  
    This checkbox allows to enable automatic pausing on-demand instance if it is not used. Such behavior could be controlled by Administrators using a set of parameters at System Preferences (see [here](../12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md#system)).

    > Please note, this checkbox will not be displayed if any cluster is configured ("Static" or "Autoscaled").

6. If the **Price type** is set as "_On-demand_" - at the **Launch page**, an additional control **Maintenance** appears. It allows to configure schedule for automatical pause/resume a tool run:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_26.png)  
    It could be useful when the tool is launched for a long time (several days/weeks) but it shall not stand idle, just increasing costs, in weekends and holidays, for example.  
    For more details, how to configure the automatically schedule for a run see [6.2. Launch a pipeline](../06_Manage_Pipeline/6.2._Launch_a_pipeline.md) (item 5).  

    > Please note, the **Maintenance** control will not be displayed if any cluster is configured ("Static" or "Autoscaled").

    Users (who have permissions to pause/resume a run) can create/view/modify/delete schedule rules anytime launched run is active via the **Run logs** page - for more details see [11. Manage runs](../11_Manage_Runs/11._Manage_Runs.md#maintenance).

7. Define the parameters in the **Exec environment**, **Advanced** and **Parameters** sections.
8. Click the **Launch** button in the top-right corner of the screen.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_24.png)  
    Please note, that the current user can launch a tool only if he/his group has corresponding permissions on that tool (for more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md)), but the **Launch** button may be disabled also for one of the following reasons:

    - `execution` isn't allowed for specified docker image;
    - `read` operations aren't allowed for specified **input** or **common** path parameters;
    - `write` operations aren't allowed for specified **output** path parameters.

    In such cases, hover over the **Launch** button to view warning notification with a reason of a run forbiddance, e.g.:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](../../release_notes/v.0.15/attachments/RN015_PermissionsVerification_2.png)  

> **_Note_**: you can also launch a tool with the same settings via the `CLI` command or `API` request.  
> To generate the corresponding command/request click the button ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_25.png) near the "Launch" button. For more details see [here](../14_CLI/14.5._Manage_pipeline_executions_via_CLI.md#generate-pipeline-launch-command-via-the-gui).

## Launch particular Tool version

1. To run a particular version click the **Versions** section.
2. Select a version and click the **Run** button. The selected version with default settings will be launched (these are defined for Cloud Pipeline globally).  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_04.png)
3. If you want to change settings, you shall click the arrow near the **Run** button → **Custom settings**.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_05.png)
4. **Launch a tool** page will be opened.
5. Define the parameters.
6. Click the "**Launch**" button.

### Example 1

In this example, we will run the "**Ubuntu**" Tool with custom settings: **30 Gb** hard drive, **4 CPU** cores, and **16 Gb** RAM.  
**_Note_**: "Start idle" box is ticked to allow **SSH** access to the running Tool. To learn more about interactive services see [15. Interactive services](../15_Interactive_services/15._Interactive_services.md).  
Click the **Launch** button in the top-right corner of the screen when all parameters are set.  
![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_06.png)

After the **Tool** is launched you will be redirected to the **Runs** tab:

1. Click the **Log** button to see run details after instance finishes initialization.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_07.png)
2. Wait until the **SSH** button will appear at the **Run logs** page, click it  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_08.png)
3. You will be redirected to the page with interactive shell session inside the Docker container. For example, we can list "/" directory content inside the container.  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_09.png)

## Launch a Tool with "friendly" URL

User can specify a "friendly"-format endpoint URL for persistent services. This produces the endpoint URL for the selected interactive service in a more friendly/descriptive format instead of the default general **`<host>/pipeline-<RunID>-<port>`**.  
"Friendly" format can be configured before the specific service launch in the "**Advanced**" section of the **Launch** page.  
This format has the following structure - `<custom-host>/<friendly_url>`, where:

- **`<custom-host>`** - valid existing domain name. If it's not specified, the default host name will be used
- **`<friendly_url>`** - valid endpoint name. If it's not specified but the `<custom-host>` is specified - the final endpoint URL will be equal the `<custom-host>` only

**_Note_**: specified endpoint URL shall be unique among all active runs.

### Example 2

In this example we will configure a pretty URL for RStudio Tool.  
**_Note_**: for do that, user account shall be registered within CP users catalog and granted **READ** & **EXECUTE** permissions for the rstudio Tool.

1. Navigate to the **Tools** tab.
2. Select/find **_RStudio_** Tool in the list:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_10.png)
3. At the opened page hover the "**Run**" button and click the appeared "**Custom settings**" point:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_11.png)
4. Click the "**Advanced**" control (**a**), input desired "**Friendly URL**" (**b**) (name shall be unique) and then click the "**Launch**" button (**c**), e.g.:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_12.png)
5. Open the **Run logs** page of RStudio Tool, wait until the tool successfully starts.
6. Click the hyperlink opposite "**Endpoint**" label:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_13.png)
7. In a new tab RStudio will be opened. Check that the URL is in the "pretty" format you specified at step 4:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_14.png)

## Instance management

Instance management allows to set restrictions on instance types and price types for tool runs.

> User shall have **ROLE\_ADMIN** or to be an **OWNER** of the Tool to launch **Instance management** panel. For more information see [13. Permissions](../13_Permissions/13._Permissions.md).

To open **Instance management** panel:

1. Click ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_15.png) button in the left upper corner of the main tool page.
2. Click "Instance management":  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_16.png)
3. Such panel will be shown:  
    ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_17.png)

On this panel you can specify some restrictions on allowed instance types and price types for launching tool.

Here you can specify:

| Field | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| **Allowed tool instance types mask** | This mask restrict for a tool allowed instance types. | If you want for that tool only some of "large m5..." instances types will be able, mask would be `m5*.large*`<br />![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_18.png)<br />In that case, before launching tool, dropdown list of available node types will be look like this:<br />![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_19.png) |
| **Allowed price types** | In this field you may restrict, what price types will be allowed for a user. | If you want "On-demand" runs only for that tool will be able, select it in the dropdown list:<br />![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_20.png)<br />In that case, before launching tool, dropdown list of price types will be look like this:<br />![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_21.png) |

To apply set restrictions for a tool click ![CP_LaunchTool](attachments/LaunchTool_22.png) button.

Setting restrictions on allowed instance types/price types is a convenient way to minimize a number of invalid configurations runs.  
Such restrictions could be set not only for a tool, but on another levels too.  
In CP platform next hierarchy is set for applying of inputted allowed instance types (sorted by priority):

- User level (specified for a user on "User management" tab) (see [v.0.14 - 12.4. Edit/delete a user](../12_Manage_Settings/12.4._Edit_delete_a_user.md#launch-options))
- User group level (specified for a group (role) on "User management" tab. If a user is a member of several groups - list of allowed instances will be summarized across all the groups) (see [v.0.14 - 12.6. Edit a group/role](../12_Manage_Settings/12.6._Edit_a_group_role.md#launch-options))
- Tool level (specified for a tool on "Instance management" panel) (see [above](#instance-management))
- _(global)_ **`cluster.allowed.instance.types.docker`** (specified on "Cluster" tab in "Preferences" section of system-level settings) (see [v.0.14 - 12.10. Manage system-level settings](../12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md#cluster))
- _(global)_ **`cluster.allowed.instance.types`** (specified on "Cluster" tab in "Preferences" section of system-level settings) (see [v.0.14 - 12.10. Manage system-level settings](../12_Manage_Settings/12.10._Manage_system-level_settings.md#cluster))
